README.md, before:

# gr-qradiolink

GNU Radio out-of-tree (OOT) module for QRadioLink blocks.

## Overview

This module provides GNU Radio blocks for various digital and analog modulation schemes, specialized for amateur radio and digital voice communications.

## Features

### Modulation/Demodulation Blocks

- **Digital Modulations**: 2FSK, 4FSK, GMSK, BPSK, QPSK, DSSS
- **Analog Modulations**: AM, SSB (USB/LSB), NBFM
- **Digital Voice**: FreeDV, M17, DMR (Tier I/II/III), MMDVM
- **Supporting Blocks**: Audio source/sink, RSSI, FFT, deframer, CESSB

## Directory Structure

```
gr-qradiolink/
├── CMakeLists.txt          # Top-level CMake configuration
├── include/                 # Public header files
│   └── gnuradio/
│       └── qradiolink/
├── lib/                    # Implementation files
├── python/                 # Python bindings
│   └── qradiolink/
│       └── bindings/
├── grc/                    # GNU Radio Companion block definitions
├── docs/                   # Documentation
│   └── doxygen/
├── examples/               # Example flowgraphs
├── tests/                  # Unit tests
└── cmake/                  # CMake modules
    └── Modules/
```

## Dependencies

See [DEPENDENCIES.md](DEPENDENCIES.md) for a complete list of required and optional dependencies.

**Quick Summary:**
- GNU Radio >= 3.10 (with vocoder component built with Codec2 support)
- CMake >= 3.16
- Boost libraries
- Volk (Vector-Optimized Library of Kernels)
- ZeroMQ (optional, for MMDVM blocks)
- Python 3.x with NumPy (for Python bindings)
- fmt library (for tests)

## Testing

The module includes comprehensive unit tests for all blocks. Tests are run using CTest and Boost.Test framework.

### Test Results

All tests pass successfully:

```
100% tests passed, 0 tests failed out of 20

Test Breakdown:
- 5 Manual tests (with int main): test_mod_2fsk, test_mod_4fsk, test_mod_am, 
  test_mod_gmsk, test_mod_bpsk
- 15 Boost.Test tests (using gr_add_cpp_test): All remaining modulator and 
  demodulator tests

Test Coverage:
- Modulators: 2FSK, 4FSK, AM, GMSK, BPSK, SSB, QPSK, NBFM, DSSS
- Demodulators: 2FSK, 4FSK, AM, GMSK, BPSK, SSB, QPSK, NBFM, DSSS, WBFM, M17
```

### Running Tests

To build and run the test suite:

```bash
cd build
cmake ..
make
ctest --output-on-failure
```

### Fuzzing Results

The module includes comprehensive fuzzing coverage using libFuzzer. See [fuzzing-results/results.md](fuzzing-results/results.md) for complete fuzzing campaign results including:

- Coverage statistics (757 edges, 893 features discovered)
- Execution metrics (104+ million executions)
- Performance analysis
- Security assessment (0 crashes, 0 memory leaks)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later (GPL-3.0-or-later).

See the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file in the QRadioLink repository for details.

Commit message:

Update README with conversion info and fix fuzzer harnesses
- Add information about conversion from QRadioLink application
- Link to QRadioLink website (https://qradiolink.org/) and source code
- Document fuzzing status (104M+ executions, no crashes found)
- Fix 6 fuzzer harnesses to prevent early plateauing:
  - Add minimum input padding (64 bytes for modulators, 128 bytes for demod_4fsk)
  - Ensures sufficient data processing per execution
  - 3/6 fuzzers now discovering new coverage instead of plateauing

README.md, after:

# gr-qradiolink

GNU Radio out-of-tree (OOT) module for QRadioLink blocks.

## Overview

This module provides GNU Radio blocks for various digital and analog modulation schemes, specialized for amateur radio and digital voice communications.

This module was converted from the [QRadioLink](https://qradiolink.org/) application, which is a multimode SDR transceiver for GNU Radio, ADALM-Pluto, LimeSDR, USRP, and other SDR hardware. The original source code is located at [https://codeberg.org/qradiolink/qradiolink](https://codeberg.org/qradiolink/qradiolink).

The QRadioLink Codeberg page does not mention any crashes or other known issues. The code has been fuzzed extensively using libFuzzer with over 104 million executions across multiple blocks, and no crashes or memory leaks were discovered. However, the codebase could potentially benefit from further fuzzing, particularly for blocks that have not yet been fuzzed (see [fuzzing-results/results.md](fuzzing-results/results.md) for coverage details).

## Features

### Modulation/Demodulation Blocks

- **Digital Modulations**: 2FSK, 4FSK, GMSK, BPSK, QPSK, DSSS
- **Analog Modulations**: AM, SSB (USB/LSB), NBFM
- **Digital Voice**: FreeDV, M17, DMR (Tier I/II/III), MMDVM
- **Supporting Blocks**: Audio source/sink, RSSI, FFT, deframer, CESSB

## Directory Structure

```
gr-qradiolink/
├── CMakeLists.txt          # Top-level CMake configuration
├── include/                 # Public header files
│   └── gnuradio/
│       └── qradiolink/
├── lib/                    # Implementation files
├── python/                 # Python bindings
│   └── qradiolink/
│       └── bindings/
├── grc/                    # GNU Radio Companion block definitions
├── docs/                   # Documentation
│   └── doxygen/
├── examples/               # Example flowgraphs
├── tests/                  # Unit tests
└── cmake/                  # CMake modules
    └── Modules/
```

## Dependencies

See [DEPENDENCIES.md](DEPENDENCIES.md) for a complete list of required and optional dependencies.

**Quick Summary:**
- GNU Radio >= 3.10 (with vocoder component built with Codec2 support)
- CMake >= 3.16
- Boost libraries
- Volk (Vector-Optimized Library of Kernels)
- ZeroMQ (optional, for MMDVM blocks)
- Python 3.x with NumPy (for Python bindings)
- fmt library (for tests)

## Testing

The module includes comprehensive unit tests for all blocks. Tests are run using CTest and Boost.Test framework.

### Test Results

All tests pass successfully:

```
100% tests passed, 0 tests failed out of 20

Test Breakdown:
- 5 Manual tests (with int main): test_mod_2fsk, test_mod_4fsk, test_mod_am, 
  test_mod_gmsk, test_mod_bpsk
- 15 Boost.Test tests (using gr_add_cpp_test): All remaining modulator and 
  demodulator tests

Test Coverage:
- Modulators: 2FSK, 4FSK, AM, GMSK, BPSK, SSB, QPSK, NBFM, DSSS
- Demodulators: 2FSK, 4FSK, AM, GMSK, BPSK, SSB, QPSK, NBFM, DSSS, WBFM, M17
```

### Running Tests

To build and run the test suite:

```bash
cd build
cmake ..
make
ctest --output-on-failure
```

### Fuzzing Results

The module includes comprehensive fuzzing coverage using libFuzzer. See [fuzzing-results/results.md](fuzzing-results/results.md) for complete fuzzing campaign results including:

- Coverage statistics (757 edges, 893 features discovered)
- Execution metrics (104+ million executions)
- Performance analysis
- Security assessment (0 crashes, 0 memory leaks)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later (GPL-3.0-or-later).

See the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file in the QRadioLink repository for details.
